# python-assignment3

I. Avoiding Duplicates: Create a program that reads words from the user until the user enters a blank line. After the user enters a blank line your program should display each word entered by the user exactly once. The words should be displayed in the same order that they were first entered. For example, if the user enters: Cat Dog Dog Bird Cat then your program should display: Cat Dog Bird 

II. Roll the Dice 1,000 times: Write a function that simulates rolling a pair of six-sided dice. Your function will not take any parameters. It will return the total that was rolled on two dice as its only result. Write a main program that uses your function to simulate rolling two six-sided dice 1,000 times. As your program runs, it should count the number of times that each total occurs. Then it should display a table that summarizes this data, that looks like: Express the frequency for each total as a percentage of the number of rolls performed. Your program should also display the expected percent (left column) for each total (you can just print out these numbers as seen in the image above. No need to calculate them). Explain in a comment why you think the theoretical and simulated values look different. Hint: A dictionary can be used so that it has keys 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, and values can be initialized to the probability that each key will occur when two 6-sided dice are rolled. 

III. Uber Fare: In Greater London, Uber fares consist of a base fare of £2.50, plus £1.25 for every mile travelled. Write a function that takes the distance travelled (in miles) as its only parameter and returns the total fare as its only result. Write a main program that demonstrates the function. Hint: fares change over time, depending on the surge of users. Use values in the function to represent the base fare and the variable portion of the fare so that the program can be updated easily when the rates increase. IV. Complete the song: There are two files attached on this zip file: file1.txt and file2.txt. Make a program that reads the contents of the files and combines it into third file called file3.txt. The combined file should be a text file that has the text from file1.txt immediately followed by the text from file2.txt. The files provided contain the lyrics of a song from the British indie zombie musical “Anna and the Apocalypse”. The movie is available for streaming on Netflix UK at the time of this coursework posting. Hint: Be mindful of the relative paths of the files to the program. Make sure that file1.txt and file2.txt exist in the same folder. 

V. Euclid’s Greatest Common Divisor: In mathematics, the greatest common divisor (gcd) of two or more integers, which are not all zero, is the largest positive integer that divides each of the integers. Euclid, a Greek mathematician who lived approximately 2,300 years ago, created an algorithm for computing the greatest common divisor of two positive integers, a and b: If b is 0 then Return a Else Set c equal to the remainder when a is divided by b Return the greatest common divisor of b and c This algorithm is recursive and efficient, hence we still use it today. Write a recursive function that implements Euclid’s algorithm and uses it to determine the greatest common divisor of two integers entered by the user. Test your program with some very large integers.
